MATH 392 Problem Set 10
================

### Part I: A model for the three-sided coin

Before class on Friday, take a few minutes to go to the math lounge and collect data (i.e. flip coins). Please do at least 10 flips of each coin and enter the data in [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VkhRclV8pypp183EA5vFMBZPZr3Jrs5NEp42fdVIldw/edit?usp=sharing). Some notes:

1. You can find the coins in a box on a bookshelf near the blocked off window.
2. Flip the coin onto the solitary square mat on top of the black mat from a height of ~18 in.
3. Exclude any flips that roll off the square mat.

Using this data and the models described in the slides,

A. Create a plot showing the relationship between $\eta$ and $p_{edge}$ for each of the four models that we've considered. I suggest writing a function for each one that plotting them using `stat_function()` in `ggplot2`.
B. Calculate the likelihood of the data for each of the four models and put the results into a table (I recommend using `kable()`). Which model for a three sided coin is most supported by this analysis?


### Part II: Changing the changepoint

You're encouraged to start these exercise by copying into your problem set the second large code block from [the notes](https://github.com/andrewpbray/math-392/blob/master/slides/week-12-changepoint.Rmd) that implements the Gibbs Sampler with `set.seed(497)`.

1. Using the `post_samples` matrix (or corresponding dataframe `df`), investigate the shape of the joint posterior distribution by constructing several plots. After contructing these plot, summarize in a few sentences the relationship between the three parameters in the posterior.
    - A scatterplot of $\lambda$ on $\mu$ with color mapped to the value of $m$.
    - The same scatterplot but where you only include samples with values of $m$ that are less than 10 or greater than 50.
    - A [hexplot](http://ggplot2.tidyverse.org/reference/stat_summary_2d.html) where each hex is filled with either the mean or median value of $m$.
2. Alter one of the prior distributions of the Poisson rate parameters so that they are much more flat. What is the effect on the joint posterior distribution?


### Part III: An alternate sampler

Gibbs Sampling isn't the only way to draw samples from a joint posterior. One that's always available to us is rejection sampling. You may want to refer to your notes and past slides for more details, but in broad strokes rejection sampling for the changepoint problem will involve,

- Writing a function called `joint_post()` that takes as input values of the three parameters (and the data) and returns a value of the joint posterior density.
- Formulating a 3D proposal distribution that you can take random samples from that covers the support of the parameters (or the support with the highest density).
- Taking draws from the proposal distribution for your three parameters and retaining it with probability equal to the ratio of the proposal density at the point to the value of `joint_post()` at that point. Note that you will likely need to normalize either the proposal density or the joint density so that the proposal density is always greater than or equal to the joint density, ensuring acceptance probabilities less than or equal to 1.
- Repeat the previous step many many times until you have accepted a suitable number of draws from the joint posterior.
    
Implement such a rejection sampling scheme for the changepoint problem and create the same plots from part II with the original priors and the data from `set.seed(497)`. Is the structure in the new sample from the joint posterior the same as when we used a Gibbs Sampler (up to Monte Carlo variability)? What are the downsides, as you see it, to the rejection sampling approach? What about the upsides?



